So when you ask people you're an evil
developer, what make code is hard to test?
They'll say, ooh, make things private.
I mean, I don't know,
using final keyword would be cool into
saying object.freeze in JavaScript.
Have methods that are very complicated.
And sure, to a lot of degrees,
this makes the situation harder because
you cannot monkey patch things,
because the object is frozen.
Or you cannot get a hold of things
because they're hidden somewhere in
a special property.
Or if the method is too long,
then it becomes really
complicated to write a test.
But fundamentally,
the reason why code is hard to test
is because you can't separate it out.
You can't isolate it.
And the reason you can't isolate it is
because the code which is responsible for
constructing your application and
the code that represents the logic are
intermixed, so you can't take it apart.
And the reason why they're
intermixed is that you'll have
things that you'll have code that
looks for other pieces of code, and
you'll see a lot of snow as love
Demeter or the train wreck.
You'll you have something called A, and
you'll say something like A.B.C.D.F,
and you kinda walk the tree to get
a hold of something that you want.
This can also be done as you call
a function that returns another function,
which you call another function on
it to return whatever you want.
And you're just kinda working
it instead of just being given
the thing that you need at the beginning.
Doing work in a constructor, so
when we're doing the GitHub API test,
we created a helper function that
created a promise that allowed
us to manipulate the promise
from the outside, right?
It kind of made sure that the resolve and
reject was exposed to the outside world.
But notice, we didn't do anything
else inside of that function.
If we wrote this function
where inside a way,
we would automatically also put the logic
for returning something or verifying.
It would be really difficult to reuse or
use it anywhere else,
because we would be essentially doing
work in the constructor, right?
The thing that was responsible for
constructing it should do nothing else,
just construct it.
And so in our case, it just did that.
And it was a natural consequence
to us writing the test first,
because why would you write it in a way?
Because any other way would
be more complicated to write.
And so if you write test first,
so obviously,
you're gonna write the simplest
thing you think of.
Nobody's gonna make the test
intentionally complicated,
that's just not how we are as humans,
right?
Okay, the other one that really should be
worth talking about is the global state.
And global state is super problematic, and
it's more problematic on a server
than it is on the client.
So for example, you write an application
that takes a currently logged-in user and
shoves it somewhere in the global state,
so anywhere in the code base,
you can just say this global variable and
you get the username.
It surely makes your life
easier as a developer, but
now you decide, I'm gonna pre-render
the application on a server.
But on the server, you have multiple
threads of execution happening, right?
Because, I mean,
it's not multithreaded, but
multiple awaits
are happening continuously.
The Node.js gets multiple requests, and
it's processing multiple
requests concurrently.
When request A is waiting on a database,
the server can process request B.
And now, the global variable
becomes a problem, right?
Because if request A sets
the user to be user A and
request B now runs, it can't just go and
set it to request B because
there's only one copy of it.
So that's an example of where
it becomes problematic.
But it also is problematic,
because global state is hard to get to.
Externally, I don't know what kinda
global state the application relies on,
because when I write a unit test, I wanna
be able to control all the dependencies,
which include dependencies
in the global space.
And this global space might be difficult
to get to, or hidden in some way,
because typically, we don't wanna
expose it to the outside world,
which means we also
are hiding it from the tests.
So global state is
particularly problematic.
And singletons are just
another form of global state,
where you have one global cache for
your application.
Great, you go to the server, not so great.
But also, inside of a unit test,
it's not so great because test A runs,
it sets up some information
inside your singleton cache.
Test B runs, and all of the sudden test
B fails because the cache contains some
values that you didn't expect.
You focus the test by saying it.only,
and now you run the test by itself.
And now the cache isn't poisoned,
and now your test passes, and
now you're going crazy,
like what kind of a test is this?
It's passing by itself, but
it's failing as a group.
And you can see how that would become
really difficult really quick.
Well, I'm not gonna cover
the deep inheritance,
because that's not really
applicable to JavaScript.
But too many conditionals
is just the question of,
Something known as cyclomatic complexity.
Have you heard the term?
Cyclomatic complexity just says,
if you look at your function,
how many decision points are there?
The IF statement is a decision point,
right, because you could go one way or
the other way.
You could either go to the L's branch or
then branch.
So cyclomatic complexity just adds up all
the different paths that you can have
through your function, right?
A simple function has
a cyclomatic complexity of one,
because there's only
one way it can execute.
Whereas if you have an IF statement, at a
minimum you have cyclomatic complexity of
two, because you can execute through
the IF branch or the Then branch.
And if you have two instead IF statements,
now you have a cyclomatic complexity of
four, because you can go through
the first IF, but the second Then, and
it adds up like that.
Go ahead.
>> There's a question around
understanding mixing new with logic,
is that just when you're creating a new
class that it's doing too many things, or?
>> Yeah, so let's say we had a piece
of code that would load the dataset for
clustering, and then run it through
the clustering algorithm and
then convert it into the desired
output for the cluster component.
Such a situation would be
extremely difficult to test,
because I would like to now create
a clustering with my own dataset,
but I can't because the code
that is fetching the data and
the code that is doing the clustering
are all in the same function.
So now I have created a problem for
myself, because I cannot split it apart.
So if you notice the way we
structured our code base,
as we made sure that the act of
passing the data into the clustering
algorithm was always separate from
the actual clustering algorithm, right, so
that we could always call
it with something else.
You could make it simpler on yourself by
just saying like, the first argument,
I'm not gonna ask you for.
Instead, I'm just gonna call the
underlying method which was load dataset.
But now, you would mess yourself up for
testing purposes,
because you can no longer pass
in a smaller, simpler test set.
So that's what I mean by mixing the logic,
which is the clustering with
the construction, which is how do you
assemble the pieces together, right?
So I can teach you about writing test and
the answer is nothing, but
I can only teach you stuff
about writing testable code.
This was written back in the day before
I mainly did Java, that's why I said,
good object-oriented programming.
But really, it comes down to just good
practices that is decoupled, right?
You wanna have code that is decoupled,
think Lego blocks.
You wanna be able to work with
Lego blocks individually.
You need to have some way of
getting hold of these dependencies.
Dependency injection is one way
that's popular in the Java world.
But even if you're not using
dependency junction per se,
as long as you have a way of getting hold
of the dependencies in a practical sense,
you're really practicing
this particular thing.
Test-driven development is useful,
because it naturally forces
you to write simple tests.
Nobody is gonna write a complicated test.
Everybody writes something simple first,
right?
And if you write tests first,
then your code will naturally
just do the right thing.
Because inside of the test, you will
write something very simple, like,
imagine I have these four data points, now
cluster them, I expect to see two subsets.
That's a pretty straightforward thing,
right?
And naturally, in the test,
you're gonna force a way of passing
the dataset into the clustering algorithm.
And so the test will naturally
force you to make sure that you can
assemble the code in
lots of different ways.
So you can assemble it with dataset
A versus dataset B, with diagonal points,
with one point, with many points,
and so on and so forth.